Thank you Foo for agreeing to this interview, Denise. My name is Ewan and this is Bernard.
So when were you born? I was born on the 4th of January 1968. And Foo, what's that? In Exeter.
So I moved up here on my second birthday. So we moved into Goldfinch Coast on the 4th of January
1970. And we moved up because my father was a mechanic working for somebody in Exeter,
but he had the opportunity to come up with his business partner at the time, Tony Rake Straw,
and they came up together to run the Palmeric Service Station. And Tony ran the petrol side
of it and the shop with his wife Margaret, and my dad ran the mechanic side of it.
And that's what brought us up here on my birthday. I was two.
So obviously taking them into consideration that you were two,
what did you think of the area when you first arrived?
When I was little, I can't remember anything obviously from moving up, I can't remember when
I was two, but my very early days in this street, I remember playing out on that green
and with lots of children, lots of other children in the street.
So there are two greens in Goldfinch, there's one directly outside my house and there's one
a little bit further up. And the children from further up the road used to play on that green
and we used to play on this green. Occasionally we would get together. But my earliest memories
are of playing hide and seek and games like that and skipping and two balls and various things
like that out in the green and my mum calling me in because it was tea time and time to come in.
So obviously it's very different from Exeter.
Yes, we used to go down to Exeter a few times a year because all of my family were down there.
So my my gran, my auntie's, uncle's, cousins, everybody was down in Exeter and it was only
my close family that were up here. So I don't remember Exeter obviously from when I lived there
but I do remember those visits down to my gran and to visit my cousins and that.
Exeter is just a very busy city with lots of cars, lots of people but my memories of Exeter
really are going down to visit my family as opposed to the place.
Can you tell me about your parents? You said that your dad was a mechanic.
Yeah, my dad was a mechanic. My gran used to say that my dad was extremely bright and intelligent
and was top of the score or top of his year but I think she wanted him to go on to
do something other than being a mechanic but that was really what he wanted to do.
So my dad was a mechanic. My mum did work in a printing factory before she had all of us
and but then she left work when I think when she got married and then she had all of us.
So my dad did go into the army for two years to do his nationals and my mum had already had my
eldest sister then, Janet and then I think after he came out she had Andrew and then Sandra and then me.
So four of you? Yeah, four of us. There was a fifth but it was still born before me I think.
You mentioned the petrol station in Pwll Merig. There isn't a petrol station
there now is there? There is. The petrol station in the shop is still there but the mechanics part
of it the garage is is not there. So that is that the petrol station just outside Pwll Merig?
Yeah if you're coming from Caldecourt you've got the shop on the left hand side the garden centre
and then it's first right the garage first right and I think now where the garage was
where my dad had the pit that is now where there's like a car cleaning thing to clean your car
and that was where my dad's garage was. Did he continue with that business throughout his career?
He did for a long time. The garage was a jet garage by the way at the time with the yellow
sign. He did for a while but then I remember my younger days we had it just seemed like no
money worries because I had birthday parties and my dad had a nice light blue
jag which I remember yeah I had leather seats and some sort of cassette thing wasn't like
cassettes as we know it it was like an older thing with like solid cassette thing and all it was
and he used to play music on it when he used to take us to school but I remember those
those days fondly we used to have birthday parties and lots of presents and things and then all I
remember was later on perhaps when I was maybe nine ten eleven something like that and the birthday
parties stopped because my dad's garage didn't wasn't doing as well I remember my mum and dad
saying it was because people were made redundant from lambworn steelworks and it affected my dad's
business so my dad was out of work for a little while but then he worked for Red and White in
Chester yeah and he started at the bottom and he worked his way up and he became union leader
union rep I think.
How did you spend your evenings when you were growing up?
My younger days very much out on the green playing with my friends and we used to do
like I said I hide and seek and skipping and tag quite a lot of tag
and I remember we used to make mud pies and I think we got quite dirty
and then in my teens I used to spend a lot of time with my friends I can't really remember until
about 15 16 or maybe a bit older 16 17 when we used to go to the pub and they used to play a lot
of pool in my late teens.
So did you go to school in Cardacol? Yes went to West End School first infant school
which is down the bottom of the road and my earliest memories were
when I was younger starting school and playing in a Wendy house with Susan Burroughs
who is a black girl with beautiful long long hair and she took me into the Wendy house because I
was apparently unconsolable my mum told me that she could hear me all the way up the street
she was walking away I didn't want to go to school so that was West End School the only thing really
I remember about it apart from that was Mrs Miranda's who is still living and living in
Rockets I believe and my dad used to drive us in the Jag a group of children from the street
and we had to shut our eyes and tell dad where we were between here and West End
which really wasn't very far and he used to play Valdunigan
on these big cassette tape things in the car I remember that and that's about as much as I
remember from West End Infants and then I went to Church Road School
and my mum used to give me a little few pence for the bus to come home but I never caught the
bus on the way home I walked and I spent the money on a Tempe mix-up sweets. So the two schools
particularly one is infants and one is juniors West End is infants and Church Road is juniors
it's still the case today yes only they've got different well West End is no longer because
it's been knocked down recently the school there's houses there now and Church Road is now called
something else and the other thing I remember from Church Road is my mum used to come because I was
very very close to my mum so in West End she used to I think on the way perhaps to the shops or
something she used to walk up the lane which was adjacent to the fence by the playground
and she used to give me little kisses in between the fence in playtime or lunchtime
so used to do that quite regularly and in Church Road Junior School I remember her
coming to meet me on a Friday because I always wanted her to meet me every day but she wouldn't
so she used to come up and meet me on a Friday and we used to go down to the village and she
used to get me a magazine called Twinkle this is a little girl's magazine at that time
and she used to get me some sweets and but I remember when I was very little
walking through the village with my mum and she used to stop and say hello to people and they
used to talk about the weather and I just remember distinctly remember tugging on her hand thinking
it's so boring when she stops and talks to people about the weather but she seemed to know everybody
in Caldecott which was very annoying because I didn't like her talking to other people
so that was that. So for the listener can you explain
what Caldecott is now you refer to as a village yeah so a change from being a village to a town?
It's completely different now yeah it's so very completely different
for example when I was in my teens and we used to go up the pub usually the Measure, the Cross,
the White Hart which is obviously no longer there which is very sad
those three pubs were the the centre of everybody's every teenage person's life in
in the 80s and 90s and we used to go up those pubs and we knew everybody
so you go in the pub and virtually everybody in the pub you would know
and if you go up the Cross now and there's a band on you'd see many people and you wouldn't know them
and it's a lot busier as well cars wise and people's wise houses the streets in Caldecott
I don't even know now. So those days when you would know everybody there so was that from school that
you knew them?
Probably from school yeah probably from school yes
yeah probably the majority of them from school or friends of friends from maybe your year above or
the year above that yeah yeah so on so and it has changed so can you say what has caused that change
do you think? I think probably more people moving into the area in Caldecott
maybe because living in Bristol the houses the rates and everything else that you've got to pay
all the bills you've got to pay in Bristol so expensive people are coming over the bridge now
and moving in this area I remember when when I was younger
younger there was lots of lots more land around Caldecott as well whereas now it almost feels
like Caldecott, Broggett, Undy, Maga is almost all one place with many many more housing estates
new housing estates going up and I remember a lot of the housing estates being built in Caldecott
and now they've been there for a very long time but for me they're sort of still new but
there are there are many streets and housing developments in Caldecott now that I don't even know
but it was a much much smaller place much quieter place and I think one of the biggest differences
is the downside of it all is there's such a huge increase in crime in this area which is
really really sad because when I was growing up we weren't bothered about locking doors and
certainly not when you were in the house as well but even you could leave your door unlocked
go up the village come back and there would be no problem
but nowadays on you know the thing that we've got nowadays is Facebook those Facebook pages that
that kind of I know Ali is is involved in it she she posts or shares the the posts from the police
locally about local crime and there's almost something happening every every
every day and that's such a shame because Caldecott's always been a wonderful place to live in
when did you leave school and what did you do after that? I left school when I was 17
I did my O levels and then I went to Nash College which is now Colleague Gwent
and I did a one-year Secretarial course and then I left college and got a job
and worked as a secretary variations of until I was 22 and then I went to run a campsite in France
and then for six months and then I went to the University of Northumbria in Newcastle
for four years to do a BA in modern languages and political science political studies
so
one thing I remember going back to Church Road is a few things I remember it the teachers
specifically and when I was kind of preparing my thoughts for this interview I remember getting
a really bad mark in my maths test it was mental maths and I was always fairly rubbish at mental
maths and I and I always used to get sort of two or three or four and there's one particular
occasion I got zero and I burst into tears my teacher was Mr Wiltshire and and he tried to
console me and he sat me on his knee and it was perfectly innocent even with my memory is is very
clear of the moment because it was not very nice getting zero so it was perfectly innocent and he
was only consoling me and he sat me on his knee and I remember that now I think that wouldn't
happen these days and that was I don't know whether that was first or second year of the
juniors something like that yeah and then we had a lovely teacher called Mr Kirkwood that was in
the fourth year and we had another teacher called Mrs I think her name was Mrs Casals
but we used to call her Mrs Casals all the other way around but I wrote a poem in her class and
I won a prize for it and I wrote it about one of my friends Caroline Harris and I won a prize for
it it was a limerick poem that we had to write and we used to have dens in the field that is still
there behind church road school we used to have dens a couple of dens in the trees and I walked
around there back along and those trees are still there which is quite nice
you said you did modern languages politics what else was it it was modern languages with political
studies so I studied french post a level yeah and spanish ab initio and political studies it was
comparative politics yeah and so when you finished that what did you do after you finished that I
graduated in 1995 yeah and I met my husband that final year he was my conversation assistant in
university in my fourth year and he had to do the military service in France because he's french
so in 1990 1995 96 we went to France while he did his military service I was a bilingual secretary
in Paris and then we came back because my dad was poorly and we got married quite quickly we got
married in September 96 and then my son was born in September 97 so we stayed here then and I worked
after my son was born I worked for a computer company in Chepstow part-time
as a sales coordinator and then decided to to completely change my career and go into sales
so since 1998 I've been in sales field sales and my first job was working for
ADT foreign security in Bristol but covering Bostrakshire
and in the meantime you were you are now living in Caldeco yes so can you say more about
about Caldeco you have mentioned the changes that have taken place
it's grown bigger and things have changed and you've seen those changes taking place
and what date would you or is there a date when you could say well I can just see it changing
from that date onwards about you know within five years or something like that
gosh that's a difficult question to pinpoint an exact date or even an approximate date really
because it's been a gradual change I feel yeah for me I would say
probably when I was
probably 20s
hmm so I would say 25 years ago but that's off the top of my head without preparing for that
question yeah I would say 20 to 25 years ago but I wouldn't say that all the changes happened at
that precise time but I recall the kind of the changes
I think in my 20s my early 20s perhaps yeah okay and the if we look to the town as it is now
the shopping area
um uh the changes have taken place in the shopping area
probably more recently I would I think um can you say something about those changes that you've
seen and what you think might have caused them I remember there used to be a supermarket in where
the charity shop is I think it's st. David's um there used to be a supermarket in there
and I used to go in that supermarket with my mum I think was it I think it might have been
international or maybe international was where
was where Waitrose is now I can't recall which which one international was but there wasn't
a supermarket in Colby Cot called international after that there was Gateway that's definitely
where the um where Waitrose is now I remember we had a quick save which is where the clothes shop
is now um and I remember there used to be a toy shop upstairs in is it NSS or the Henderson's
um there used to be a toy shop opposite the um uh the shop next to chapel's chemist there's been
there and my mum used to take me to that toy shop and my uncle and auntie used to come up my uncle
used to buy me puzzles in that toy shop um and what else do I remember I the a strong memory I've
got is Adams's because we used to my mum used to take me in there to buy me my school uniform
and I quite clearly remember the the desk where the lady was and my mum going in and she used to
sell all sorts and my mum used to get the wool from there because my mum was brilliant at knitting
I used to knit all my school cardigans when I was little and we used to go in there and she used to
buy the wool and when it came to August I suppose she used to go in there and buy me my school
uniform I remember Adams's quite clearly and and that's all changed totally yes I think Adams's is
is is now a funeral place yeah I think that's where it was um and of course we've got the
pedestrian area we've got Asda which which which on the one hand is good because we needed
a cheaper supermarket but on the other hand it's so sad that we had to give up that wonderful big
school field in order to have a supermarket in Coldicott um that's a real shame because we don't
have that many green areas and you think the supermarkets have affected the um the smaller
traders definitely definitely because there are so many shops now that are empty and again that is
a real shame as well I remember when we were when I was little my mum used to take me to the fruit
shop and we used to buy fruit shop from the fruit shop and we used to buy the meat from the butchers
and um now everybody buys most people buy things from either Waitrose or Asda
and obviously that's going to have a knock-on effect um and Washburns going as well um was
was significant for Coldicott for the listener could you just describe Washburns and Washburns
was a really really great shop um especially my dad liked it um because it sold um diy stuff and
paint and and various other useful things um and it's just somewhere you could go if you if you
were doing something in your house and needed screws or screwdrivers or paint or wood or
whatever you needed to to do in your house you could pop up to Washburns and you'd be able to
get it in there and it was a local family as well and it was a real shame yeah that was kind of a
lot of local people who've been here a long time I think found that to be a shame that Washburns
went so coming back to you you had a career in sales yeah um and so how has that progressed
where are you now with that I got to the peak of my career in April 2016 yeah and I'd worked for
a company for five years and in that company I progressed um up to international sales um
where it was for a fire alarm company and I was selling fire alarm panels and detectors and
peripheral in peripheral things um and I and I was doing a lot of traveling because it was
international and um I was um looking after Africa Eastern Europe and the Baltics Spain Portugal
various various territories and um in September 2005
was it six um we lost we well one of my colleagues we were a small team of about five or six
salespeople and um one of one of our colleagues got very seriously ill very very quickly
so can I just stop you on the date again yeah I'm trying to think yeah so but how long ago was it
um I left the company in April this year yes and he and our colleague died in February 2017 so he
was taken ill in the September 2016 yeah and it was and he was um just such a lovely lovely person
very very funny person very popular and he was uh in the gym he worked uh he lived away but
he used to come for uh the regular the monthly sales meetings and the the company was based in
Cumbrian so he used to come and stay over and he stayed in the hotel parkway next to our
office and he was on the treadmill not feeling very well a couple of days after um anyway he
was diagnosed with with um sarcoma and he went downhill very quickly and we lost him in February
um 2017 um and during his illness and particularly January February is when I decided that life's too
short to work 60 hours plus and I wanted a complete change in my life so I resigned gave him two months
notice and left um in April 2017 and what are you doing now um at the moment I'm I've taken a few
months out to train um so I'm now training and that's swimming gym and yoga um and I've been
swimming for um since 2004 um but I'm now um swimming a lot more
five sessions a week and I go to the gym twice a week and I do yoga and strength exercises to
get stronger as I'm getting older um and um also in September um 2017 I started a level p
um to learn more in detail and understand about the effect of exercise on our body and mind
um so I go to cross keys college three days a week it's part time and I'm absolutely loving it
so I'm now going to be looking for a part-time job um to bring in some money locally um
to be able to pay for my training because my training is quite expensive
um and just coming back to Cardacot um you know you mentioned um about um
the Cardacot web pages um Cardacot community can you just go through for us
the number of um web pages or Facebook pages that there are and what they are please
there are lots and it's I think it's a great thing um this is this is a positive um way of
bringing people together and sharing information and helping each other and I think that's
fantastic there's the Cardacot community page which has I believe about 7 000 members um there's
the Cardacot memory lane society page um which is all about sharing um history and sharing
knowledge and information pictures um and memories um and again I think there's
five six thousand members something like that on that page and then we have other smaller pages
as well things like um things to do around Cardacot um uh recommendations page I think
there's a page which someone has started fairly recently with less members but um it's for the
people of Cardacot that the were the original original people of Cardacot although anyone
can join it and so there are several pages there are also pages where people want to buy or sell
things but the main ones are the Cardacot community page and the memory lane society page
and I think it's brilliant because um very often every day pretty much people will post something
on the community page and ask for advice or information or help with things or even just
to give each other um sort of advice if if somebody's been burgled for example there seems
to be a lot of that recently they would post it on there and say be careful lock your doors
or if somebody wants to buy something or find something or find out about something um then
then it's on there all of the pubs have pages as well which is fantastic because I've noticed
lately particularly that the pubs are making more an effort to put bands on karaoke quizzes
that sort of thing and they advertise on those pages and people actually go to those pubs pages
to find out have you got a band on this weekend what is it when is it and and I think that the
measure the cross and
I think the measure and the cross and the seller are the three most active in doing that
and when you go to those pubs now on a Friday and Saturday it does seem to be a little bit busier
because we did have obviously this is very sad the White Heart
um uh got knocked down and uh several years ago now and also we lost the Tiplin philosopher the
tip fondly known as the tip um and that's now being made into residential homes um
and and we went through a stage where the pubs you go out in the pub on the Friday or Saturday
is absolutely dead so it is nice that these Facebook pages local Facebook pages are they seem
to certainly on a Friday and Saturday with in conjunction with the pubs making an effort to
bring in bands and that sort of thing and and sort of um offering free curry on rugby nights and that
sort of thing um I think it's it's starting to work and get people out again which is nice
and getting the community together again which is nice
so is there anything else you want to say to me about um or are you happy with
everything you've said so far I think um from my probably my teenage years upwards I would say
that the biggest change for me personally is the bridge the new bridge we call it we still call it
the new bridge um because at the back of my house we have the railway both lines the the lower line
which is seven tunnel junction to um to Bristol Tampines and the upper line which is Caldecott
Swansea if you like through to um uh Chepstow and beyond um but I I remember when I lived in
this house with my mum and dad and they started building the the approach road for the second
seven crossing and um my my little boy was very little when that was built and I remember
as they were building it we went over my husband and I went over with my son and we have a photo
of him on his little bike tiny little bike when he was very young um actually on that approach
road um and when when it was first built or even before it was built I remember people coming here
when my mum and dad were in this house and they asked um they were checking sound levels and all
rest of it and they get they offered the residents some money because of the potential noise that
they were going to expect um but now especially on a windy day if you open your windows you can
hear the noise it's like a constant drone of the cars because obviously there are so so many more
cars now than then when it was first built I think that that's one one thing going back a few years
that um that there's a big difference in college and obviously more recently very very recently is
the new school um which which is great in its progression and it's better and it's required
because the old school was so old and um and and so sort of um tumbling down if you like um been
another way it's really sad for people of our era and generation um because it holds so many
memories um and a bit like as they're coming along and taking our school field now they're taking
three significant buildings which have been the center of Caldecott really for so many so many
years um my eldest sister I think she just about made it into that school um when we moved up from
Exeter um but certainly my other sister and my brother went to that school as did I and my son
went to that school um but my my niece now is doing array levels and she's in the new school
and I asked her what it's like I said what what is the new school like because I haven't been in
there and she said it's quite open plan in the main bit and it's quite so it's quite noisy so she
I think she's taking a little while to get used to it but things have to progress and we needed a new
school um and all new facilities and to sort of keep up with the times so it's important to have it
but it's also um really sad to see the old one go
thank you very much Denise for the interview